# 8.13. Glossary

#### algorithm
A step-by-step process for solving a category of problems.

#### body
The indented statements after a heading ending in a colon, for instance after a for-loop heading.

#### counter
A variable used to count something, usually initialized to zero and incremented in the body of a loop.

#### cursor
An invisible marker that keeps track of where the next character will be printed.

#### definite iteration
A loop where we have an upper bound on the number of times the body will be executed. Definite iteration is usually best coded as a for loop.

#### escape sequence
An escape character, \, followed by one or more printable characters used to designate a nonprintable character.

#### generalize
To replace something unnecessarily specific (like a constant value) with something appropriately general (like a variable or parameter). Generalization makes code more versatile, more likely to be reused, and sometimes even easier to write.

#### infinite loop
A loop in which the terminating condition is never satisfied.

#### indefinite iteration
A loop where we just need to keep going until some condition is met. A while statement is used for this case.

#### iteration
Repeated execution of a set of programming statements.

#### loop
A statement or group of statements that execute repeatedly until a terminating condition is satisfied.

#### loop variable
A variable used as part of the terminating condition of a loop.

#### nested loop
A loop inside the body of another loop.

#### newline
A special character that causes the cursor to move to the beginning of the next line.

#### reassignment
Making more than one assignment to the same variable during the execution of a program.

#### tab
A special character that causes the cursor to move to the next tab stop on the current line.
